IMDb Ratings Analysis: The Golden Age of Television

Project Overview

This project analyzes data from the entertainment industry, focusing on TV shows from the "Golden Age" of television, which began in 1999 with the release of The Sopranos. The main objective is to investigate whether highly-rated TV shows released during this period also receive the most votes on IMDb.

Objective

The assumption tested in this project is:

Do highly-rated TV shows from the Golden Age also have the most votes?

The project mimics real-world data professional tasks, where business decisions often begin with assumptions that need to be validated using data.

Dataset

The dataset used for this analysis is stored in /datasets/movies_and_shows.csv and contains information on movies and TV shows.

Columns Description:

name — Name of the actor or director.

character — Character played (for actors).

role — Person’s contribution to the title (actor or director).

title — Title of the movie or TV show.

type — Specifies whether the entry is a movie or a TV show.

genres — List of genres.

release_year — Year of release.

imdb_score — IMDb rating.

imdb_votes — Number of votes received on IMDb.

Project Structure

The project is divided into three stages:

1. Data Overview

Load the dataset and inspect its structure.

Perform an initial exploration of column types and data distribution.

2. Data Preprocessing

Clean column names.

Handle missing values and duplicates.

Filter the dataset to focus only on TV shows released from 1999 onward.

3. Data Analysis

Examine relationships between IMDb scores and vote counts.

Identify patterns and trends in the dataset.

Evaluate whether the assumption holds true.

How to Use This Repository

Clone the repository:

git clone https://github.com/yourusername/imdb-golden-age-analysis.git

Install necessary dependencies:

pip install pandas matplotlib seaborn jupyter

Open the Jupyter Notebook:

jupyter notebook

Run the notebook to analyze the dataset and generate insights.

Conclusion

This project applies data analysis techniques to validate an assumption about IMDb ratings and votes. By following the structured workflow, we derive meaningful insights into viewer engagement with highly-rated TV shows from the Golden Age.

Future Improvements

Expand the dataset to include additional sources for more robust analysis.

Perform sentiment analysis on user reviews.

Explore machine learning models to predict IMDb scores.
